Pulse post about underwater cellular network paper (#311)
subnero1/subnero1.github.io: _posts/2024-11-30-Shaping-the-Future-of-Subsea-Connectivity-with-Cellular-Networks.md

---
layout: post
title: Shaping the Future of Subsea Connectivity with Cellular Networks
banner: images/banner-unetstack.jpg
date:  2024-11-30
categories: wnc news
thumbnail: images/pulse-thumbnail-network2.jpg
---

<div class='pulse-img-div'>
    <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Network4.0.jpg" class='pulse-img'>
</div>

> Subnero (along with our collaborators ST UIS) recently published a paper titled Design, Development, and Deployment of an Underwater Cellular Network, presented at the OCEANS Halifax conference. This work represents a significant leap toward realizing Subnero’s vision of establishing underwater connectivity akin to terrestrial wireless networks. The paper, available [here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10754077), details the development of a subsea cellular network enabling seamless communication and localization for underwater assets such as autonomous vehicles and sensors. The network was tested near Singapore, leveraging Subnero’s acoustic smart modems for robust communication and localization. The deployment demonstrated capabilities for real-time data exchange and continuous asset tracking, marking a major milestone in subsea networking innovation. We are actively working to improve and expand this network, integrating new capabilities to drive further innovation and application readiness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subnero (along with our collaborators [ST UIS](https://www.stengg.com/en/defence/sea/unmanned-solutions/) ) recently published a paper titled Design, Development, and Deployment of an Underwater Cellular Network, presented at the OCEANS Halifax conference. This work represents a significant leap toward realizing Subnero’s vision of establishing underwater connectivity akin to terrestrial wireless networks. The [paper details](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10754077) the development of a subsea cellular network enabling seamless communication and localization for underwater assets such as autonomous vehicles and sensors. The network was tested near Singapore, leveraging [Subnero’s acoustic smart modems](https://subnero.com/products/wnc.html) for robust communication and localization. The deployment demonstrated capabilities for real-time data exchange and continuous asset tracking, marking a major milestone in subsea networking innovation. We are actively working to improve and expand this network, integrating new capabilities to drive further innovation and application readiness.
```
